Well, folks, it's a blisteringly hot
day in San Francisco.
I'm glad you're all here,
because it's nice and air-conditioned.
We're going to have a pretty
code-intensive session today.
I've got a fair amount of slides,
but quite a bit of time
at the demo machine,
showing you how to develop your
applets and do some debugging
with Safari and the Java console.
So let's get into it.
So today we're going to talk
about the web-based deployment
technologies on Mac OS X.
If you saw session 608,
you saw a little bit about applications
and deploying those on Mac OS X.
We'll get into the features available
to you as an applet developer,
some features available to
you as a Web Start developer.
I have a pretty long session with
debugging tips for applets and some
settings that you can use to help
you figure out what's going on.
And finally, at the end,
we'll talk a little bit about helping
you decide which is the right one
for your deployment situation.
So here's a picture for deploying
a Java application on Mac OS X.
On the left, you have this traditional
double-clickable application.
Looks like any other
application on Mac OS X.
In the center,
we have Web Start applications.
And the reason we have sort of a
left turn going on here is that you
can deploy a Web Start application
the traditional way,
through a web browser with
a link to the JNOP file.
You can also make a
double-clickable application
out of that Web Start JNOP file.
And you can ship that
around to your end users.
Web Start is now smart enough
that it will look at that
JNLP file in the double-clickable,
go out and update all the resources,
and it will behave just as if you
clicked from the link in the web page.
And finally,
we have applets through web browsers.
For this session,
we're just going to focus on the
right two-thirds of this diagram.
We had a really good session
about developing applications.
Today, we're going to talk about
your web alternatives.
Specifically for applets,
this is sort of the landscape today.
Anything that uses the old embedding
framework will get Java 1.3.1,
and those are things
like Internet Explorer,
Netscape, or anybody else who's adopted
the embedding framework.
Currently,
if you are a Cocoa application,
and right now that's primarily Safari,
but you would use the Java Cocoa plug-in,
which uses the 1.4.1 VM and
the 1.4.1 applet viewer.
And that distinction is
somewhat important if you've
done development on Windows,
because you know the feature set between
the two plug-ins is somewhat different.
All right, to build an applet-- when
building applets on Mac OS X,
some things you want to know and
keep in mind is that it's all built
on the Java plug-in technology.
The applet viewer with
Mac OS X is identical.
It's feature-for-feature compatible
with what you get on Windows or Solaris.
It's already been installed.
There's no additional end user
install that needs to be done
like you would on Windows.
No getJava or anything like that.
We've already done that for you.
: If you're going to use
Safari or Applet Launcher,
Applet Launcher is sort of a
development tool that we use that
also uses this applet viewer.
You'll get 1.4.1.0.1.
I want to make that distinction
that we're currently at 1.4.1.0.1.
1.3.1 is what you'll get
with Internet Explorer and
Netscape and anything else
using the embedding framework.
And another choice available to
you on Mac OS X is Java Web Start.
You can deploy an applet
or an application,
but Web Start is really
geared towards delivering a
full application via the web.
We support one-click
launching from the browser.
Safari has already been configured to
look at the MIME type for a JNLP file and
open up Web Start and do the right thing.
It has the full dynamic updating
features of Java Web Start.
So you put all of your
jars up on a server,
and if you update those jar files,
Web Start will just go get them
and always bring the latest
application down to your users.
It has something I call,
it's platform neutral,
but it's not platform ignorant.
And by that,
I mean you can tailor the JNLP file
to the platform that it's running on.
We'll get an example of
that in a little bit.
But basically, you can say, well,
if I'm on Mac OS X,
I need these additional files.
We'll talk about that
and how you do that.
And the big thing about Web Start is it
lets you deliver a full application much
more easily than you can in an applet.
You can sign the application,
and it gets the application done.
It gets full access to the user's desktop
just as a regular application to this.
And the last thing to mention,
Mac OS X, out of the box,
can serve a JNLP-based application.
Now, if you're on Windows or
actually in Solaris,
if you're using Apache, for example,
you know that you have to tell
Apache that when it delivers a JNLP file,
you have to send out the
right MIME type with it.
We've already done that for you.
We've already configured
Apache correctly,
so there's no additional work
for you to do if you want
to use Mac OS X or Server to
deliver a Web Start application.
Right now, I want to show you an
example of some of these,
I don't want to call them
more advanced applets,
but more feature-rich applets
that are available to you.
You've all seen an applet before,
so we're basically going to focus
on some of the more interesting
ones as far as what's available.
Let's go to demo one.
So the first thing I want to
show you is Visual Thesaurus.
And
What's nice about this is it's got
some pretty spiffy graphics for moving
through a web of information about words.
It's sort of a visual dictionary,
if you will.
So we'll start with
the word demonstration.
And you can see it jumps to that word,
and now I can start clicking through
here to other words and continue on
a web of following through the words.
Okay, cool.
So this is sort of a neat visual
applet that sort of highlights some
of the graphics improvements we've
made in the latest release with the
Java DP that was released on Friday.
One other applet I want to show you,
this is games.com.
Games.com is cool,
not for the only reason that it has
really nice Parker Brother games
that I like to play personally,
but...
One of the new features in 1.4.1 is
that you're going to find that in 1.3.1,
this applet would not work.
That's because we're relying
on an older version of JSSE,
Java Secure Socket Extension.
A lot of those problems
have been fixed in 1.4.
So if an applet now encounters
a certificate that it
doesn't like in some way,
whether it's out of date or
self-signed or something like that,
it will now ask the user if that's okay.
And we'll just take a look
at a game in progress here.
And the other impressive thing
about Clue and some of these other
games is they're fairly complex,
and it's a great visual
experience for the user.
It's very responsive.
And it's something you just
couldn't do with 1.3.1.
Now we can do it with 1.4.
[Transcript missing]
So we won't find out who wins this game.
But now,
let's move on to a Web Start application.
[Transcript missing]
And we've got, you know,
save and print and all the things that
you would expect out of an application.
And what I'm going to do is create
a very quick class diagram here.
We'll use the canonical shape example.
And we'll expand this a bit.
Let's start with the shape class.
Subclass it.
Make a circle.
[Transcript missing]
There you go.
This is a Mac OS X application.
It's...and it's delivered
with Java Web Start.
So whenever they make
updates to Poseidon,
all I got to do is
just start it up again,
and I'll get the latest version.
Okay.
Let's go back to slides.
Let's get into a little bit more
detail about how applets and
developing applets on Mac OS X.
Everything I'm going to talk to you about
in these next few slides is documented
at the URL you see here on the screen.
If you don't get it
written down right now,
that's okay.
I'll show it to you at the end.
But the message here is that
everything you see in that
documentation will work on Mac OS X.
It all ported over fairly
cleanly from Windows.
What we're going to do is we're going
to focus on the areas where we've
made improvements for you in Mac OS X.
[Transcript missing]
In particular,
the first thing you want to think
about in an applet is your HTML.
A common question we get is,
how should you write your web page?
You can use an applet tag, object tag,
embed tag.
We would like you to use the applet
tag if you haven't done so already.
Applet is going to give
you the most compatibility
across platforms with Safari,
Internet Explorer, or on Windows XP.
The sun is really pushing people
to use applet tags on Windows.
And for the most amount of
cross-platform compatibility,
that's the way to go.
Another thing to think about...
You should never assume a Java VM version
based on the browser that you've got,
that you detect with JavaScript.
So just because a user's running Safari,
don't automatically assume
they're running 1.4.
Just because they're
running Internet Explorer,
don't automatically assume 1.3.
That will probably,
it will definitely change in the future,
and if you're making
assumptions in your HTML,
you're in for a lot of trouble.
The best way to determine what you're
running is when the applet starts up is
to look at the java.version property,
java.specification.version, and os.name.
These three will help you determine
exactly what you're running.
Now, Java.version will give you the full
1.4.1.0.1 with possibly a build after it,
but Java.specification.version
will give you the short,
you know, what Java platform are you on.
So in this case, for example, in Safari,
if you did this, you would get 1.4.
And that's it, just the string 1.4.
Another thing we often see
is setting proxy settings.
On Windows and Solaris in particular,
this is a big deal.
I think it's because Sun uses
a firewall internally,
so they need to get their proxy set up
so they can get out of the firewall.
On Mac OS X,
there is one place to set proxy settings.
That is in the network pane
of the system preferences.
If you've got additional proxy settings
for your particular deployment situation,
create a new location in the network
panel and set up your proxies that way.
You can get at those proxy
settings by looking at standard
properties in your applet.
If you've got additional proxy settings
for your particular deployment situation,
create a new location in your applet.
If we don't have a tech note or a Q&A,
we should probably document
the mapping of those things,
but everything you see in that network
panel has a corresponding Java property,
and we'll get that information for
you and make it available to your
applet or application if necessary.
HTTPS is one of those areas
that's really improved in 1.4.
It's all built into the plug-in.
There's nothing for you to do,
and now in 1.4, there's nothing for you
to do in your code either.
All you need to do is make a
URL with an HTTPS scheme and
just open a connection to it,
and we'll take it from there.
It's all based on the
Java Secure Socket extension,
which is now a standard part of 1.4.
In 1.3,
it was an extra add-on that didn't
really fit in with the plug-in,
but it mostly did the job.
But now in 1.4,
it's all integrated and works very well.
One difference from Windows is
that the root certificate store,
by default, comes out of the keychain.
Matt Kostin has a number of,
I believe it's on the order of two
dozen popular root certificates.
And we can match a certificate
that you generate against that list
based on what's in the certificate.
And sort of tying into that,
if the user now decides that
they want to always trust the
certificate in your applet,
we'll add it to the keychain.
And that gives the added benefit
of letting people use the Keychain
Access application now to take a
look at all their certificates,
delete them,
or do what they need to do with them.
It's not a common thing to do,
but as you'll see,
it's better than the alternative.
and the alternative is something
called the Java Key Store.
This is sort of Sun's cross-platform
solution to storing certificates.
Normally, by default,
that key store is in
/library/java/home/lib/security
and buried down where a
user wouldn't normally find it.
It would have to go in a terminal
to start doing things with it.
So as a result, you know,
we've tried to start moving away from
that and stick to keychain access.
Now, currently, there is a bug.
Actually,
it's a bug generated from Sun where
a self-signed certificate can't
be stored in the keychain.
That's not entirely true
because I found situations where
that's not exactly the case.
But for, you know,
for the sake of your development,
let's assume that it's not going to work.
If that's a problem for you,
we have a Java property,
com.apple.security.useJavaKeyStore.
If you set that to true,
we will look in that Java key
store for the root certificates,
and if the user decides to always trust,
that certificate will get stored in
that Java location for certificates
as opposed to the key chain.
Now, as I mentioned,
if the user wants to do anything
with their key store when
you're using this property,
they have to go in a terminal and
use a key tool and start looking at,
you know,
looking with things in the terminal,
and that's really not something
we want end users to do.
So that's why it gets a big red X.
Use that key store as a last resort.
Most of what I said for HTTPS connections
is true for a sign jar as well.
You get full-signed applet support.
It supports Netscape-style
or IE-style signing.
You can sign it once,
and it'll work everywhere.
If you sign something to work
with a 1.x version of Java that
comes with Internet Explorer,
for example, or Netscape.
Of course,
now that the Java plug-in is pretty
much becoming somewhat ubiquitous,
this is less of a problem.
But keep in mind that if
you sign something for 1.0,
it will continue to work in 1.4.
I'm sorry, for 1.1,
And once again, if the user wants to
always trust that jar file,
the signature on that file,
it will go in the keychain.
And just like HTTPS, the same properties,
if you will, apply to using that
keystore if necessary.
[Transcript missing]
For your deployment,
try not to use a self-signed certificate.
Use that key store as a last resort.
Okay.
One thing that's new in 1.4,
and is actually greatly
improved in 1.4--over 1.3,
is applet caching.
And in 1.3, basically,
applets were cached on
demand when you were,
I'm sorry, not so much on demand,
but when indicated in the HTML file.
In 1.4.1,
every remote applet and every remote
resource gets cached automatically.
will be joining us in a few minutes.
Scott Kovatch will be
joining us in a few minutes.
I made a slight comment here about larger
applets seeing the most improvement.
That's because if you have
a number of small files,
the overhead of checking to see if
things are up to date may negate all the
benefits of keeping everything locally.
I made a slight comment here about larger
applets seeing the most improvement.
That's because if you have
a number of small files,
the overhead of checking to see if
things are up to date may negate all the
benefits of keeping everything locally.
All right,
what we're showing up here is an example
of what you would put in your applet tag.
I've left out the rest of the applet
tag and only have the relevant
parts for applet caching here.
And what you're seeing here is, I guess,
what I would like to call
1.3-style applet caching,
because it works in 1.3 and 1.4.
But what you have is, first of all,
the first parameter is
called cache archive,
and what you list there is
all the jar files that you
want cached for your applet.
So you just string them out
in a comma-separated list.
And what goes along with that is
something called cache version.
And as you can see,
the format is a dotted
hexadecimal four-part number,
so it looks something like an IP address.
But you have to have one of these
for each entry in the cache archive.
So in this case,
we have three jars we want to cache,
and so we have three versions
that match up with each other.
with each one of those jars.
and the way this works is that
the Apple viewer will look at
each version and it will look
at what it's already got cached.
So if it sees in the cache, well,
I already have 1.2.0.1 of a.jar, well,
I don't need to update or do anything.
[Transcript missing]
The reason this speeds things up
at load time is that by default,
The default mechanism for checking if
things are up to date is to look at the
last modified date on a jar and the size.
So the Apple viewer will send
an if-modified since up to your
server to find out if that jar
file is newer than what it's got.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, and now the new 1.4 way is
something called Cache Archive EX,
and we have some additional things
that you can specify in the HTML.
Okay,
what's different now is that the jar
file name and the version are all
put together in the same tag now.
So you have the jar file name, semicolon,
something optionally called preload,
and then the version.
And if you get preload,
that means everything is loaded up
front when the jar file is downloaded.
So if you, for example,
want to stick a jar full
of images in your applet,
you could stick them
all in that jar file,
and they get loaded and
turned into images right away.
So you take a little bit of hit up front,
but you take less of a hit while
the user is running the applet.
So the perception will be that
things are somewhat faster.
So there's an example of how
you can use that down below.
And in this particular example,
the way I've set it up,
applet.jar always uses the default
mechanism for seeing if it's up-to-date,
and it gets preloaded.
util.jar gets preloaded,
and it has a version on the end of it.
tools.jar gets loaded on demand
and has a version at the end of it.
So that's some things about the
HTML and some other things that
you can set up for your applet.
Let's talk a little bit about the
debugging tools available to you.
As a developer,
you're probably going to be
using the Java plug-in settings
application quite a bit.
We keep it in Applications
Utilities Java,
and there's two versions in there,
one for 1.3 and one for 4.
Pay attention and pick the right one for
the VM that you're going to be targeting.
I'll give you a demonstration
of how you go about using this
later on in a few minutes.
But that's where it's found,
and we'll talk about it shortly.
And one of the things you control
with that is the Java console.
The Java console is where you'll
find all the system.out and
system.error if it's turned on,
if your applet generates
any messages like that.
Exceptions, stack crawls,
things like that will all go here.
It's got additional logging and
tracing mechanisms that are very
useful to help you keep an eye on
the loading activity for your applet.
You can get thread stacks.
If your applet's hung,
you can go over to the
console and find out where the
deadlocks are in your applet.
It's got something called
class loader cache control,
which is important for when you're
doing iterative development.
We'll talk about why you need to
know about that and why you need
to clear it out every now and then.
Let's go to the demo machine again.
And now I'm going to spend some
time actually developing an applet.
: And show you some of the
techniques that you can use
for doing some debugging.
All right,
so the first thing I'm going to do,
I'm going to start with
the Java plug-in settings.
This first tab has the
controls for the Java console.
Right now,
we only support either making it
visible or not making it visible.
On Windows,
you can hide it in the toolbar
so that it comes up minimized.
We don't have a good mechanism
for doing that on 10,
so right now we only
have show or don't show,
basically.
So for this example,
I'm going to show it,
and the console only comes
on when an applet is loaded.
So if Safari launches up,
you will automatically
get a Java console.
And we can turn this on to pop
up an alert when an exception
happens during loading.
I'm going to turn it on
for our examples here.
Click Apply.
Now I'm going to go over here to Xcode.
And for the purposes
of this demonstration,
I made a very simple applet that's
going to paint out a system property.
[Transcript missing]
As part of building this,
I want to point out one
of the nice things about
about Xcode is that I can set Xcode
up to automatically sign my JAR file.
You have to sign the JAR file for this
applet in order to get this to work.
And so I've added a shell script phase
where I'm just gonna run JAR signer
and I've already got a key start with a
self-signed certificate in it on my disk.
So we're gonna build the applet and it's
going to automatically sign it for me.
So we're going to build it.
And that is that.
It's pretty-- not much to do here.
Alright, so there's my console.
Okay, now here's my security alert.
It says,
"Do you want to trust this applet?"
[Transcript missing]
The message I'm trying to give
you here is that a self-signed
certificate is inherently unsafe.
I, in here, said I'm with Apple Computer.
Well, I am, but I could easily
have said I'm with Sun.
Or I could easily have said
I'm from the government.
So, we're just going to say yes,
and there's our property.
All right.
So I'm going to bring
up the console here,
show you a few things that you can do.
Let's see.
All right,
one of the first things I'm going
to show you is-- I'm going to hit S.
And here's a list of all
the system properties.
Now, because this is a signed applet,
we're allowed to read every
property available in the system.
I'm sorry, available in the VM.
So we've got a number of these, you know,
sun.boot.class.path, things like that,
that you wouldn't normally
get from an applet.
Click H to get the help again.
Another thing is a list of
all the threads that have
been created by this applet.
We have a thread group
for your applet down here.
Here's my applets main thread
and the event queue for it.
So you can take a look at those.
And 1.1.4 is the ability to dump
out all of the thread stacks.
And as you can see,
the deepest stack is the one
that responded to the keystroke
for the dump all stacks.
That's usually going to be the case.
In fact, you'll probably always find this
particular stack when you're looking
at the stacks for your applet.
All right,
so let's go back here and to Xcode,
and let's make a very
small change to the applet.
I'll just say "Home dir,"
and I want to build it.
All done there.
Okay,
so I'm going to go back here and refresh.
And look, gee, nothing happened.
That must be a bug, right?
No.
This is not a bug.
The reason is something
called a class loader cache.
And what the plug-in does
is it caches class loaders.
Say that ten times fast.
You'll just spin your head
around for three minutes.
What it does is that it caches class
loaders so that if you go back to a page,
it speeds up the load of the page again.
Because starting up an applet
is an expensive operation.
Now, if you're doing iterative
development like this,
that's going to be somewhat of a pain.
So the console gives you
the ability to hit X,
and it clears out the class loader cache.
[Transcript missing]
Just to show you, if you've done some,
we'll reload this applet.
Let's see here,
I have two Safaris running.
Oh, empty the trash.
Oh, well, okay.
All right, let's move on.
All right, let's go back to the
Java plug-in settings here.
Over here on the Advanced tab,
we have a little box called
Java Runtime Parameters.
This is a place where you would
set properties that can go into,
that the app will pick up.
You can actually set a number
of the properties that you saw
in the session on applications,
things like anti-aliasing
and things like that.
But for the purposes of this discussion,
one of the more interesting
things that you can set is
security-related properties.
So I'm going to define,
just to show you some of the
security properties available,
I'm going to do
java.security.debug equals help.
and here you can see everything,
all the properties available to help you
figure out what's going on with your jar
files when you're loading up an applet.
This is really useful when
developing a signed applet because,
as you'll see,
it'll dump out a ton of information
to the console about what it's
doing while it's looking at your jar
file or looking at authentication.
Another common use for
this is with the policy.
I won't show it in this demonstration,
but the combination of access and policy.
Say you're developing an applet
and you're doing something that
generates a security exception
and you can't figure out why.
If you set this particular property,
java.security.debug equals access,
it will show all of the permission
checks that it's doing and log
them out to the console and help
you figure out what's going on.
All right.
So that's it for that.
So I'm going to show -- here I'm
going to put java.security.debug=jar.
I can see I've got a whole pile of
information about how it's taking a
look at all the entries in my manifest.
Here's my certificate.
is looking at the public key.
Just a ton of information that
will help you figure out what's
going on if something goes wrong.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, let's quit Safari one more time,
and let's go back here to
the plug-in panel again.
Over here is the cache control panel.
For an end user,
the reason they would use this,
If you run a lot of applets
in your day-to-day work,
for example,
a common situation is Oracle.
Oracle delivers a ton of their
functionality via applets.
What you can do is you can go over
here and set the jar compression level.
Now, if the jar that you deliver
is already compressed,
this won't be much of a savings.
But what this will do is,
since these are all zip files,
when it writes them out
to disk in the cache,
will compress them even further.
We'll take a look at the cache.
And we'll see here's games.com
and Visual Thesaurus in the cache.
As I mentioned before, you know,
we didn't have to do anything.
All this stuff got cached
for us automatically.
Now, one thing you'll notice is
that in this demonstration,
I've been building a jar file and,
you know, running it through Safari.
So you may ask, well, where is it?
Well, it's not cached because
its scheme is file.
A file-based applet won't be cached.
Thank you.
Okay, now this is completely separate
from the Safari cache or
the Internet Explorer cache.
It has nothing to do with any of those.
So I can go in here and delete
individual entries out of here,
for example.
And Safari's cache will
not be touched at all.
And I can clear out the entire cache.
You know, just like that.
I'm going to show you very
quickly the certificates tab.
This tab only gets used when
you've set the property that
uses the Java key store.
So if the user would then, you know...
I haven't trusted any sites and
stored them in the keychain yet.
That's why these panels are empty.
But if I did,
I would see them in this panel,
not in the keychain.
So if you don't want to use a
keychain for whatever reason,
you would come over here to the plug-in
settings and look at it that way.
Okay.
Now the last thing I want to
show you is using the keychain.
For this particular example,
I'm going to go to Install Anywhere's
download site for Install Anywhere 5.
Here we have a signed applet.
It was generated by a thought,
which is one of my root certificates,
so it's showing up as
a trusted certificate.
and this time I'm going to say always.
I always trust it.
And now I'm going to go
over here to locations,
utilities, key chain access.
And there I see my certificate.
We've got all the details
of the certificate.
And if I quit Safari again
and load it up.
Here you go,
we didn't get the security dialogue
because we already said that we
already trust the certificate
that came from install anywhere.
So now I'll go over here and delete this.
We'll go back and load
up install anywhere.
And there it is.
We don't have it anymore,
so now it's asking us to trust it again.
This is pretty much immediate.
Whenever I click always,
it immediately goes
right into the keychain.
I can take a look at it.
Okay.
All right, let's go back to slides.
So I hope that gives you some new ways
of looking at your applet development
and some additional things that
you can use for your deployment.
Let's talk a little bit
about Java Web Start now,
some of the details for OS X.
On Windows and Solaris,
it's possible to tell the user, hey,
you don't have the version of Java that
I want you to have for my application,
so I'm going to download it for you.
Well, we don't support that in Mac OS X.
If end users need to go to software
update to get Java 1.4.1 or our
website to update the VMs...
[Transcript missing]
Finally, with Web Start,
keep in mind that if you
want a native library,
which is something you
can do in Web Start,
it has to follow the
Mac OS X conventions.
So it has to be lib,
the name of the native library name,
.jnilib,
where native library name is what
you would pass as system.loadlibrary.
And here's an example of something
I was talking about earlier,
where you can install Mac OS X specific
resources using a resources element.
And if you pass in OS equals Mac OS X,
only those things will be
downloaded to the user when
they're running on Mac OS X.
You can do this for Windows,
you can do this for Solaris, but on Mac,
you specifically have to use Mac OS X,
because that's our OS.name property.
Another thing we commonly get
questions about is the JVM versions.
And specifically,
if I specify a J2SE version, well,
what am I going to get?
Now, in Web Start,
this is far more well-specified
than we do in applications.
Applications,
it's pretty much identical to this,
but for Web Start,
it's very well-specified
what you're going to get.
If you specify 1.3 star,
you're going to get 1.3.1.
"If you specify one four star,
right now you will get one four one.
Now,
In the future,
if we do a 1.4.2 or a 1.3.2,
not that we would do that,
but say we do a 1.4.2 or 1.4.x,
we have an implicit ordering
that says we will always give
you the newest dot-dot version,
if you will.
So when 1.4.2 comes out,
a 1.4 star will give you 1.4.
We'll give you 1.4.2.
And similarly,
a 1.3 plus or a 1.4 plus gives you the
most recent VM greater than or equal to,
um...
I'm sorry,
instead of doing it mathematically,
what it will do is it will give
you the newest VM that's newer than
that baseline that you specified.
So 1.4+, if we have 1.4.1, 1.5, 1.6,
whatever, it will pick the newest one.
It will pick the, yeah,
it will pick the newest VM.
[Transcript missing]
Now, one thing we've done,
I've done below,
put red Xs over the product
version of the J2SE version tag.
The first four are platform versions,
and that's the most flexible because
basically you're saying that I work with
anything supporting the 1.4 platform.
Similarly with applications,
if you say that I only support 1.3.1,
[Transcript missing]
All right, let's talk about some
new things that we have.
In the update one for
Jaguar that just came out,
we now have cookie
integration with Safari.
This is something that's
been long requested,
and now that we've finally got Safari,
we've got a good platform,
and now we can work much
more closely with them.
This is one of the first things
that you're going to see as a
result of that collaboration.
Nothing needs to be done on
your part to get this to work.
If there's a cookie,
if the user's already got a
cookie for a particular URL,
we'll fetch that out of the
database and send it along with
the HTTP request for the jars or
whatever other resources are needed.
Same goes for set cookie
as well as get cookie.
It works in both ways.
: For 1.3.1,
we don't have that integration,
but we do have a Q&A, number 1265,
that gives you an example of how you
would go about doing this on 1.3.
It's not automatic.
There's some work that you have to do,
but we think it's a good compromise
until you're able to move over to 1.4.1.
And we want you to give us
your feedback on using this.
[Transcript missing]
Another new thing to talk about,
let's go back to our
Where We Are Today slide.
And as we mentioned,
that 1.4.1 is only available in
Safari right now with the Cocoa plug-in.
What we want to announce this week is the
availability of a Java Carbon plug-in.
And what this will do is it won't
automatically make it available
to IE and the other browsers,
but they will now be able to get
to 1.4.1 via a Carbon plug-in.
So if there are any browser vendors
out here in the audience that are
built around Carbon applications,
[Transcript missing]
Finally, let's talk about some deployment
choices that are available to you.
Everything I'm going to talk
about here applies whether you're
doing it on Windows or Mac OS X.
So basically you want to
look at the resource needs of
what you're trying to deploy.
If you're just doing something simple,
talking to a server, giving some status,
things like that,
look for a simple applet.
That's probably going to
be your best solution.
If you need to write something
out to the user's disk as a
preference or something like that,
look into a signed applet.
If you want to build a real application,
you want to deliver it dynamically,
Web Start's the way to go.
Web Start will let you have
some native code to put some
customization into your application.
Web Start's also going to give you
all the functionality that you need.
Things like the EAWT and things like that
are available to you through Web Start,
so you can build a full
application with Web Start.
So if that's what you want to
do and use dynamic updating and
all the features of Web Start,
that's the way to go.
Here are some more URLs for everything
I've talked about in this session.
For Web Start documentation,
start at our site and I'll eventually
take you over to Sun's site
where you can get the JNLP spec.
The JNLP specification is what
you need to look at if you're
going to be delivering Web Start.
Look again with the
Java plug-in documentation.
Go to java.syn.com.
Everything you need to know
about applets is there.
And, of course,
all of the Apple documentation
for Java in general.
You can go to connect.apple.com and you
can get the 1.4.1 developer preview,
update 1 developer preview.
There is now a quick time for Java Seed.
[Transcript missing]
People to contact, Alan Samuel,
Bob Frazier.
I highly recommend that you join
Java Dev if you haven't done so already.
It's a great resource for getting
lots of questions answered,
and usually very quickly.
Not by one of us,
but one of the other members.
And here are the rest of the sessions.
Actually, for those of you watching
me on DVD right now,
you can go back and get session 608,
which talks about Info.plist.
We've got an additional session this
afternoon on Java native integration.
Good session tomorrow about performance,
and please come tomorrow to the
feedback forum and give us your feedback
on anything you've seen this week.